README.md, before:

# LibGio.Bindings
Binding between `libgio` (gsettings, glib, ...) and the Dotnet world. The naming convention is really close to the C++ version, however, instead of working with pointers, everything have been moved into objects for abstraction purpose. Also, the library does not expose the C++ pointer directly.

**Example (F#, but c# is pretty much the same):**
```csharp
let showSchemas () = 
    let schemaSource = new GSettingsSchemaSource()
    let schemas = schemaSource.ListSchemas(false)
    printfn "\tRelocatable:"
    List.ofSeq schemas.Relocatable |> Seq.sortBy (fun f -> f) |> Seq.iter (fun schema -> printfn "\t\t%s" schema)
    printfn "\tNon-Relocatable:"
    List.ofSeq schemas.NonRelocatable |> Seq.sortBy (fun f -> f) |> Seq.iter (fun schema -> printfn "\t\t%s" schema)

    schemas
```

**Important!**
> There's a possibility of memory leak on a few calls. Since the projects is not advanced enough, it is not totally covered. However some part are already managed. This is due to the calls to the C++ library.

## Dependency
* /usr/lib/x86_64-linux-gnu/libgio-2.0.so.0 (LibGio)

## How to run the Integration Tests
To avoid running the tests within Visual Studio, you can filter the tests to remove the Trait by adding the search condition to : `-Trait:"Integration"`.

**Future:** Use some kind of attribute to skip those tests in the VS UI: https://github.com/AArnott/Xunit.SkippableFact/pull/7#issuecomment-393395780

## Integration tests
From a linux console, ensure that you have `gsettings`, `glib-compile-schemas` and an active `dbus` session.
```sh
# If DBus is not started (e.g.: WSL):
# > exec dbus-run-session -- bash
# ---
> GSETTINGS_SCHEMA_DIR=~/schemas/ dotnet test
```

During the test, we compile the schema included in the project and then move it into the home folder in order to compile it. Once it is compiled, the integration tests use that schema as a default schema to query.

## Sample Application
### FSharp Implementation
Basically a small application written in F#. It basically show a little the schemas and the key. Eventually it would be nice to also play with the value and etc.

### C# Implementation
A very small app consuming the api. The current state is basically the beginning of a program. There's a project in order to make it more usable. That being said, F# or C#, the code is relatively similar in order to call the Library.

## Ideas
- Make the application/tests run in docker (maybe?), I currently use SubSystem Linux in windows and it works. But it's a bit painful.
- Create the Nuget package
- Create automated build
- Look at possible memory leak due to the memory *(need to free... sometimes some stuff... It's a bit herratic, like GString. I am trying to encapsulate so the people who uses the lib, don't need to manage the memory... but still)*
- Write an article?

## What is implemented
- **[Partly]** GSettings
- **[Partly]** GAction
- **[Partly]** GVariantType
- **[Partly]** GVariant
- **[Partly]** GString
- **[Not started]** GSettingsSchema

[More details in the Excel within this folder](./ImplementedFeatures.xlsx)

# Run from VSCode windows + WSL
> https://github.com/OmniSharp/omnisharp-vscode/wiki/Windows-Subsystem-for-Linux

# License
![License MIT](https://img.shields.io/github/license/Nordes/HoNoSoFt.LibGio.Bindings.svg)

Commit message:

Update excel and implement g_variant_type_string_scan

README.md, after:

# LibGio.Bindings
Binding between `libgio` (gsettings, glib, ...) and the Dotnet world. The naming convention is really close to the C++ version, however, instead of working with pointers, everything have been moved into objects for abstraction purpose. Also, the library does not expose the C++ pointer directly.

**Example (F#, but c# is pretty much the same):**
```csharp
let showSchemas () = 
    let schemaSource = new GSettingsSchemaSource()
    let schemas = schemaSource.ListSchemas(false)
    printfn "\tRelocatable:"
    List.ofSeq schemas.Relocatable |> Seq.sortBy (fun f -> f) |> Seq.iter (fun schema -> printfn "\t\t%s" schema)
    printfn "\tNon-Relocatable:"
    List.ofSeq schemas.NonRelocatable |> Seq.sortBy (fun f -> f) |> Seq.iter (fun schema -> printfn "\t\t%s" schema)

    schemas
```

**Important!**
> There's a possibility of memory leak on a few calls. Since the projects is not advanced enough, it is not totally covered. However some part are already managed. This is due to the calls to the C++ library.

## Dependency
* /usr/lib/x86_64-linux-gnu/libgio-2.0.so.0 (LibGio)

## How to run the Integration Tests
To avoid running the tests within Visual Studio, you can filter the tests to remove the Trait by adding the search condition to : `-Trait:"Integration"`.

**Future:** Use some kind of attribute to skip those tests in the VS UI: https://github.com/AArnott/Xunit.SkippableFact/pull/7#issuecomment-393395780

## Integration tests
From a linux console, ensure that you have `gsettings`, `glib-compile-schemas` and an active `dbus` session.
```sh
# If DBus is not started (e.g.: WSL):
# > exec dbus-run-session -- bash
# ---
> GSETTINGS_SCHEMA_DIR=~/schemas/ dotnet test
```

During the test, we compile the schema included in the project and then move it into the home folder in order to compile it. Once it is compiled, the integration tests use that schema as a default schema to query.

## Sample Application
### FSharp Implementation
Basically a small application written in F#. It basically show a little the schemas and the key. Eventually it would be nice to also play with the value and etc.

### C# Implementation
A very small app consuming the api. The current state is basically the beginning of a program. There's a project in order to make it more usable. That being said, F# or C#, the code is relatively similar in order to call the Library.

## What is implemented
(Last update : 2019-04-20)
| What | Nb Func. | Total Impl. | Integration tests |
| ---- | --------: | -----------: | -----------------: | 
| GSettings | 54 | 74% | 67% |
| GSettingsBackend | 11 | 0% | 0% |
| GAction | 11 | 100% | 0% |
| GVariantType | 29 | 100% | 14% |
| GVariant | 121 | 49% | 28% |
| GString | 32 |  6% | 0% |
| GSettingsSchemaSource | 23 | 100% | 30% | 

Maybe coming also: DBus-Glib for communication within the bus.

[More details in the Excel](./ImplementedFeatures.xlsx)

# Run from VSCode Windows + WSL
> https://github.com/OmniSharp/omnisharp-vscode/wiki/Windows-Subsystem-for-Linux

* Not totally tested, but we can run the test using that.

## Help wanted on
- Make the application/tests run in docker (maybe?), I currently use SubSystem Linux in windows and it works. But it's a bit painful.
- Look at possible memory leak due to the memory *(need to free... sometimes some stuff... It's a bit herratic, like GString. I am trying to encapsulate so the people who uses the lib, don't need to manage the memory... but still)*
- Write an article?

# License
![License MIT](https://img.shields.io/github/license/Nordes/HoNoSoFt.LibGio.Bindings.svg)
